ReaMix Beat Mapper Tool.

A semi-automatic beat mapper.


The ReaMix Beat Mapper is a ReaScript that uses a simple but effective algorithm. It uses a base BPM as a reference point and a percentage of variance the BPM can go up or down as well as how many beats to cover per tempo marker (default is a whole bar).  It will then calculate a minimum and maximum BPM window to scan over offset from the starting point. It then moves to the next transient from this offset and if it is inside range it marks the starting point with a tempo change from the calculated BPM for that section. It then uses the end point located as the next starting point and scans for the next BPM until it misses or reaches the end.

Preparing to use it. The timebase must be set correctly so tempo markers occur at the right time and the grid matches the tempo. For this I use the following project settings. Timebase for items/envelopes/markers set to Time. Timebase for tempo/time signature envelope set to Beats.

Next make sure there are no partial measures before the first mapped beat will occur otherwise it will really mess up the grid. If you can use Reaper to create a measure up to the first point even if the BPM is a bit off. As long as a grid line crosses on the first point it will be fine.

Then make sure your Transient Detection Settings are suitable. The default may work fine. You can test with tab to see if you think it will hit the mark. Given the core of the beat mapper is to detect when the next beat stats within the BPM window and accurately.

You need to select an item for it to work off. And set the cursor to the first beat. Tabbing to transient is easiest. IF you want to mark a time selection to scan do so as it will work in a time selection if one is set. If the cursor is outside the time selection it will use the starting point of the time selection as the first beat. IF you only wish to scan within the selected item don't forget to clear the time selection.

Next load it up. The ReaMix Beat Mapper will then bring up a window for settings to use as follows:

Base BPM Reference:    Base BPM to use as reference value. Default is project tempo.
Variance (Percentage): Amount that BPM is expected to vary either way. Default is 5%.
Beats per Marker:      Number of beats to cover per tempo marker. Default is time signature beats per bar.
Allowance (For errors) Number of beat misses to allow for. Default is 0.