Announcing the ReaMix Beat Mapper Toolbox!

Hello everyone.

I'm happy to announce the first update to the ReaMix Beat Mapper Tool in over a year. It's now been split five ways to Sunday and now provides five tools to beat map your tracks in five different ways! And I've bumped the version up to 1.5 to coincide with the five way split. :-D

As well as the original tempo mapper there are tools to add markers, split on the beats, change beat speed and warp beats! :-O

In addition to this there is also an extra feature and a bug fix.

New feature:
The tool will now save settings between session runs. So once you load it up and make changes these will later be restored when you run it again. Currently they are just stored to memory.

Bugfix:
If the cursor was on the far right edge of a time selection it tried to start from the cursor which always failed because it looked from end to end. Rather than start to end. Fixed.

To enable the split I had to split up the core code itself and make it more modular. So now there are core routines and each tool has its own script. This allows easier expansion for any other scripts that can be added.


Now the five different tools making up the box:

The Mapper:
This is the classic beat mapper as featured in the first release. Mapping tempo markers on to detected beats.

The Marker:
This will add project markers on every detected beat.

The Splitter:
This will split the item at every detected beat.

The Speeder:
This will remap a detected beat range to a single BPM and match the playback rate for that section to suit.

The Stretcher:
This will remap a detected beat range to a single BPM and stretch that section to suit.


To use any tool just load up its script in the Action window from the ReaMix folder inside. These are the filenames corresponding to the above tools:

ReaMix Beat Mapper.eelReaMix Beat Marker.eelReaMix Beat Splitter.eelReaMix Beat Speeder.eelReaMix Beat Stretcher.eel


The first three tools are rudimentary and designed to simply mark tempo changes. But the last two, perhaps the most exciting, are designed to modify your track to fit an absolute tempo. So, they are destructive in that sense, and perhaps it is best to first use one of the first three to ensure it will hit the mark. Even if you can undo.

Looking at these last two in more detail. Both will work off an isolated section to modify based on the Beats per Marker setting. So if you have a 4/4 time signature and have this setting at 4 then one bar at a time will be isolated and modified. It will use the Base BPM Reference and modify that section to match this BPM. The Speeder and Stretcher aim to achieve the same result but go about it different ways.

With the Speeder. For each section it will do the following. The item section will be split at both ends to isolate that section. The playback rate will changed on that section so the actual tempo matches the Base BPM Reference. The length will adjusted to match. The fadein and fadeout values will be set to zero. The position will adjusted to match Base BPM and follow the grid. Unless you've changed item settings it will change rate and preserve pitch.

With the Stretcher. For each section it will do the following. A stretch marker will added to the start and end of that section and the end stretch marker will be stretched to match the Base BPM. Yes, that's right, that section will be warped to fit the grid. ;-)

For the moment only the first item selected will be modified to fit tempo this way. I can see this is a limitation. But I plan to address this in a future update.


Well that's it for this time. I hope you enjoy using the new version and that it can be a useful toolbox for you. Beat map away! :-)